# Tech in the News
Roberto Villegas Jr.
* 6/7/2022 [Google Meet for teachers can automatically transcribe lessons into a Google Doc](https://www.theverge.com/2022/6/7/23156443/google-meet-educators-transcribe-lessons-docs-workspace-screencast-livestreams)

Google has introduced some new and improved features in Google Meet aiming to make it easier for teachers to make their lessons and livestreams more accessible to students.
A transcription of lessons through Meet will be automatically created in a Google Doc, polls and Q&A functions are now available in Meet, and now Meet meetings can now be livestreamed directly to Youtube for an even larger audience.
There are even more new features outside of Google Meet, such as a new Screencast app that can allow teachers to "record, trim, transcribe, and share on-screen lessons" and giving students access to these recordings through Google Drive.
These new features and updates are part of Google's effort to improve Google Workspace for remote learning, which has grown in popularity since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Making a teacher's job easier will certainly make a positive change to the way students learn with technology, and can (in my opinion) open doors of opportunity for schools and students in the future to improve the way education is handled in the United States and all over the world.
* 6/8/2022 [CONCERNED DAD CREATES APP, ENABLES STUDENTS TO LIVESTREAM SCHOOL SHOOTINGS TO ALERT PARENTS FASTER](https://www.blackenterprise.com/concerned-dad-creates-app-enables-students-to-livestream-school-shootings-to-alert-parents-faster/)

A concerned father in the United States has created an app called ANJEL Tech, which students can use to send their parents their location and a livestream when there is a school shooting. It is meant to be an aid to young students from their parents in order to safely navigate through the dangerous situation. This is certainly a result of the recent Uvalde school shooting, police failed to save the lives of young students while forcing their parents to stay outside of the school. Although it is nice to see a father going to any length in order to ensure his children's safety at school, it is also a disappointing sight to see what parents in the United States must do because nobody can feel confident about their children's safety (especially at school). To me, this is much more of a situation where technology is a temporary "band-aid" to this country's problems while a more permanent (and sensible) comes in place.
* 6/9/2022 [Taiwanese tech firm Gogolook offers first anti-fraud platform in Thailand](https://www.nationthailand.com/tech/40016485)

Tech firm Gogolook has tasked itself with combatting phone and text scams with it's new "Life Protection Platform". An "AI- and data-driven anti-fraud network", the platform aims to protect users by working with local partners and building a trust platform, creating a safer digital environment for Thai users. The firm's existing caller ID app Whoscall has built its own crowdsourced database with millions of phone numbers, helping block over 6.4 million fraudulent calls in the first half of 2021. Using this data can help provide additional security from fraud and allow these users to live in peace. Fraudulent calls and texts have caused billions of dollars around the world to be lost, with the [RoboKiller's 2021 Phone Scam Insights](https://assets-global.website-files.com/625442b4613eaa38d6514c11/62712673a07d65fd78c3ca50_robokiller_yearly_phone_report_2021.pdf) reporting an estimated loss of over $10 billion in the United States. This technology can certainly help those that are especially at risk of falling for these scams, and I hope we can soon see this tech help those all over the world.
* 6/10/2022 [Reskilling older workers for new careers in tech]{https://www.mckinsey.com/about-us/new-at-mckinsey-blog/reskilling-older-workers-for-new-careers-in-tech}

A struggle older workers starting a new career in technology is the judgemental hiring manager making assumptions because of age. It is common to think that an older worker wont "relate" to teammates or "adapt well" to the tech environment because of the generational gap, with hiring managers thinking these people are too old to get a grasp of the tech compared to their younger counterparts. Nonprofit institutions like Generation try to combat this, retraining older workers and helping them get hired through different programs and initiatives, such as Generation Singapore's initiative with Microsoft to hire unemployed and mid-career workers. Workers not only learn tech skills but also receive help with their interview skills, setting them up for success in the future. Workers in tech these days are in high demand, and hopefully more workers including those that have made the career change later in their lives can get more fair chances.
* 6/11/2022 [AI can be used to identify benign thyroid nodules and reduce unnecessary biopsies](https://www.eurekalert.org/news-releases/955240)

The proliferation of AI being used in real-world situations has been steadily improving people's quality of life, including AI used to assist doctors identify different diseases in patients. A study presented at an annual meeting in Atlanta shows that AI can be used to "identify thyroid nodules", which can help reduce the number of biopsies done to make cancer diagnoses. These nodules are quite common, and thus most of the time these biopsies are quite unnecessary. The AI, trained by over 30,000 images to detect "cancer" or "no cancer", analyzes an ultrasound of a thyroid to make the diagnosis with a sensitivity of 97% and specificity of 61%. Technology like this AI can only improve from here, and soon the future will be filled with reliable, accessible medical care to take care of our planet's population regardless of location.
* 6/12/2022[Wearable tech could improve health and safety on sites, study finds](https://www.building.co.uk/news/wearable-tech-could-improve-health-and-safety-on-sites-study-finds/5117871.article)

Construction workers are always at risk of being involved in an accident, especially with the large machinery and exposed environment they work in on a daily basis. A study by the Institute of Occupational Medicine suggests that wearing sensors while on site can help alert workers when there is an "airborne" threat while working, adding an additional layer of safety while on the job. Improved health of construction workers can also improve their effectiveness while working. Improvements like this can also help a worker stay in a career like this longer and take better care of their bodies in the long run. Construction is typically not looked upon as one the best jobs anyone can get. Changes like this are important because jobs like have many people depending on it, and properly taking care of the workers is the least we can do for them.
* 6/13/2022 [Can technology tackle the lack of therapists?](https://www.med-technews.com/medtech-insights/latest-medtech-insights/can-technology-tackle-the-lack-of-therapists/)

Mental health care has seen an increase in importance in recent times, with much more people (usually younger people) being much more open to talk about and receive this kind of care. In the United Kingdom, however, there has been a steady decrease in available therapists in the NHS and thus a struggle to provide proper care for anyone that might need it. To combat this, there has been a growth in technological healthcare tools to help assist patients while a therapist can be found to properly give care. Managing a patients symptoms is one of (if not the) highest priority when treating a patient, and this technology works on starting this process using AI-driven support and saving more therapist time for patient treatment rather than administrative work. As long as patients are receiving the care they deserve, I believe technology being used in this way is a positive change.
* 6/15/2022 [Exclusive: U.S. targets Russia with tech to evade censorship of Ukraine news](https://www.reuters.com/world/exclusive-us-targets-russia-with-tech-evade-censorship-ukraine-news-2022-06-15/)

One of the most interesting things about Russia's invasion of Ukraine is that all countries involved have all kinds of modern technology to use in this war. Not only have drones been used to capture clear aerial footage of different engagements, the entire internet has archived footage and articles detailing what is going on and why everything is happening. This has bothered the Russian government ini particular, which has made an effort to censor all western media in order to justify the invasion to their own citizens with lies and deceit. The United States, on the other hand, has pushed funding into VPNs for Russian citizens to use and bypass the censorship of their country. Approximately $4.8 billion had already been pushed into VPN technology since 2015, with anti-censorship technologies seeing a significant growth of use in Russia since the start of the invasion. Making sure that the Russian people know what this war is really about can help end the terror Putin and his men are putting on the innocent Ukrainians, and hopefully the end of this invasion could come sooner rather than later.
* 6/16/2022 [AI could mitigate bias in advertising tech](https://venturebeat.com/2022/06/16/ai-could-mitigate-bias-in-advertising-tech/)

Bias is a  known issue when it comes to advertisements, but AI can be the technology to help combat this. AI is already used by companies like Netflix and Nike to connect to their consumers and personalize the advertisements and online items they see. It can be used to help mitigate the bias that already exists and open the door for a more inclusive advertisement environment. This tech can also prove useful for any other business that may want to use AI, such as calculating credit scores or issuing loans.

* 6/17/2022 [Study Reveals How Lack Of Technology May Impact Food Insecurity](https://www.tastingtable.com/900041/study-reveals-how-lack-of-technology-may-impact-food-insecurity/)

Food insecurity, which means not having reliable access to a sufficient amount of food, has hit harder than ever since the beginning of the pandemic. Researchers from the University of Texas at San Antonio found that the lack of access to technology has left older people with less information on how to get access to food, and thus left them with food insecurity. Older people are more likely to now know how to use technology to find these sources of food, and thus are left behind when it comes to feeding everyone. This is one of the downsides of becoming a society that is constantly more and more reliant on technology: those that have fallen behind in adapting to these technological changes (or flat out refuse to do so) are often forgotten about and receive a lack of attention and care.

